---
layout: post
title: "Microlite 20: Magic Points Supplement"
tags:
  - rpg
    - ml20
abstract: |
  An alternative magic system for magic lightweight 20-sided gaming.
---

# Introduction

First up, there's a [PDF version][1] available on my site and the
LaTeX [source code][2] as a gist on GitHub.
Long story short, this is a barely-tested way to use a resource other
than fire-and-forget spells or life essence to cast magic in
[Microlite 20][ml20].
This should be compatible with any ML20-based game and updated as I
play some more with this module.

[1]: /assets/docs/ml20-mp-0.9.pdf
[2]: https://gist.github.com/rocx/842cb94578f4f9b9a0907110bf8bae92
[ml20]: https://microlite20.org/

Inspired in part by computer RPGs, the use of magic points
is another flavor of magic for campaigns and settings that
are not too fond of expending hit points to cast magic.

# In a Nutshell

* Magic-Users gain an additional attribute: magic points.
* Abbreviated "mp".
* Magic points = 1d4 + MIND bonus per level.
* Cast _arcane_ spells with mp instead of hp.
  Sorry, clerics, I have another plan for y'all.
* Spells cost their usual point costs.
* Recover all magic points after a long rest.

# Magic & Wonderous Items

<dl>
  <dt>Mana Sump</dt>
  <dd>
  (2,500 gp)
  A red metallic box with small pipes and grooves on it surface
  and a large button on the top.
  The user can absorb magic points from or give to any magical target:

  <ul>
    <li>Magic-using NPCs, transferring 1d4 mp between the
        target's and user's pools.</li>
    <li>Magical items with charges, transferring the item's
        spell's cost in magic points.
        The game master can arbitrate magic points transferred if
        the item's effect is unique instead of a spell.
        This method can be used to recharge items that can be over time.</li>
  </ul>
  </dd>

<dt>Sorcerer's Cap</dt>
  <dd>
  (2,000 gp)
  Headgear that increases the
  wearer's maximum magic points by 25 points while worn.
  Does not naturally recover magic points.
  </dd>

  <dt>Mana Potion</dt>
  <dd>
  (50 gp)
  A fizzy blue potion that recovers
  1d4 magic points + 1 point per user's level.
  Has no effect on characters that cannot cast magic.
  </dd>

  <dt>Bulbous Wand</dt>
  <dd>
  (1,500 gp)
  A thick oak wand with a gemmed bulb at the bottom.
  Contains a pool of 3 + 2d6 magic points.
  Recovers half the total (rounded up) mp per day.
  </dd>
</dl>

# Casting Order

If a magic-user has items with their own stash of magic points,
the points are taken in the following order:

* Jewelry, armor, and wearable items
* Wands, rods, and staves
* Characters' magic points

For example, if a spell uses up an enchanted crown's magic
points and still doesn't cover the cost, the remainder points
are taken from a wand.

If wearing multiple jewelry, armor, and wearable items, the
casting character can decide where these points come from.

# Optional Rules

## High Fantasy I

For settings where magic-users are more ubiquitous or for them
to not sputter out of spells after ten minutes, the formula for
a character's starting magic points uses their MIND stat instead
of their bonus.
Each subsequent level still adds the normal 1d4 + MIND
_bonus_ to this total.

## High Fantasy II

Reduce the cost of spells to their level.
First-level spells cost 1mp to cast, second-level spells
cost 2mp, and so on.
Whether zeroth-level spells become free to cast or cost 1mp
remains up to the game master.

## Blood Magic

When a character's pool of magic points are depleted, they can
resort to using their hit points as a source.

## High Blood Magic

Each hit point paid to cast a spell is worth two magic points.
Using a hit point to cast a spell that costs one mp, for example,
results in a wasted magic point.

# License

The [Open Gaming License](http://www.opengamingfoundation.org/ogl.html)
omitted from this Web page for brevity, but it still applies
considering it's derived from other OGL-licensed works.
See the PDF/source code for the full license and copyright notices.
