---
layout: post
title: "Offload #5: Ye Olde Backuppe"
tags: 100daystooffload tech.web
abstract: |
  "KACHUNK!", goes the toaster!  A couple of hard disks pop out of the slots.
---

I went rummaging through my old desk at my parents' place the other
day and found a couple of old 2½-inch hard disks from some unholy years ago,
possibly from my late-teens or early-20s.
Considering I recently snagged a [cyber toaster](https://www.newegg.com/p/2BB-004E-00003)
to extract data off of my other disks, this would totally be a ripe
opportunity to cringe at my naïvete because who _wasn't_ a socially awkward moron in their teens?

...Wait, you really peaked in senior year?  Wow.

Disk #1
=======

Has a [PATA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parallel_ATA)
plug on the back, so exploring this thing is out of the question.
It also only has 40GB (if the label is to be trusted).
Seeing the port and size, I can bet this disk is old.
Technology's progressed fast enough over the last couple of decades
that I could drive on down to Micro Center and snag an
[external flash drive][mc] with better speeds and capacity for $6.

Ah, youth. A time when I thought my 512M flash drive was pretty big in
high school; not including the several flash drives I went through
because some ding-dong got close enough to bend and break it in the
port on multiple occasions. 💢

[mc]: https://www.microcenter.com/product/485001/micro-center-64gb-superspeed-usb-31-(gen-1)-flash-drive

Disk #2
=======

400GB, SATA plug; it goes in the toaster.

Old college projects from 2013 and 2014 mostly because that laptop
couldn't run Ubuntu without a load of integrated-graphics-related problems.
One of the midterm projects for a Web development class actually
required us to use [Dreamweaver][dw] to build it.
Funny, considering even in 2019, a lot of those classes also explicitly
say "do not use Dreamweaver or you lose points".

[dw]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adobe_Dreamweaver

Not as much history as I thought I would have found on this disk.
I think I _tried_ to use Ubuntu GNOME (seeing an ISO CD image file for version 13.04),
it didn't work out, so then I refreshed the stock Windows partition.
Yes, I had to keep Windows 7 on those disks because I didn't go to
some fancy schmancy college or university.
We **had** to take "digital media" classes and those all involved
proprietary Adobe software, especially Photoshop.
Not like I could've used a form of GNU/Linux on that laptop even if I
wanted to anyway...

# Young `rocx`

I think I remember what kind of moron I was back in these days.
I originally wanted to be a game developer when I was in high school.
Despite that, I never managed to make a game or even program anything until college.
For practicality reasons, I switched my major from game dev to regular software development.

I think I bought into the whole ~tHe~WeB~iS~tHe~FuTuRe~ craze that was
promised back then to the point I even tinkered with [FirefoxOS][b2g].
...There was some Game & Watch styled zombie-shooting game I was trying to do for FFOS.
I should get back into that but for the regular Web instead.

[b2g]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Archive/B2G_OS

If I could go back in time and punch my younger self right in the gob, I would.

---

Day 5 of 100 of the [100 Days to Offload](https://100daystooffload.com/).
