---
layout: post
title: "Offload #2: 4K not as OK" 
tags:
  - 100DaysToOffload
  - tech
abstract: |
  4K monitors are a meme.
---

I grabbed an [HP Z27](https://store.hp.com/us/en/pdp/hp-z27-27-inch-4k-uhd-display)
4K monitor some weeks ago for `$DAYJOB`.
Thought I was going to have so much room for activities.

Was it worth it?
================

No.

There's a few things to grasp when deciding on a monitor.
I'm used to old junk and every monitor and prior computer I had until
now connected to each other via VGA ports---the blue ones.
This gives the DisplayPort on this computer a use and makes for a sexy
display for my <span title="Nintendo Switch" style="text-decoration: dotted underline;">Switch</span>.

First off, 4K is a lie.
Its 3840 pixels by 2160 pixels.
"4X" would have been a more appropriate name since a regular 1080p
display is actually one-quarter of the size.
If you want to see anything, you'll need to enable high-DPI or
high-pixel-density settings and you'll simply end up with what looks
like a regular 1080p display but everything looks more crisp.
It's pretty, but not what I had in mind.

Second off, you're going to need a video card to utilize it.
I made the mistake of getting the monitor before upgrading my computer.
Sticking with 4K at the moment is sluggish.  Even the mouse is slow there.
Until then I'm stuck on the tired and true 1920 pixels by 1080 pixels.
At least that's still an upgrade from my previous 1366-by-768-pixel display.

My Advice
=========

If you just want things to look crisper, then by all means blow your money on 4K.
If it doesn't matter or your eyes aren't bothered by pixels, stick
with 2560 or 3440 pixels by 1440 pixels.
You'll save a few hundred bucks.

---

Day 2 of 100 of the [100 Days to Offload][100d2o].

[100d2o]: https://100daystooffload.com/
